# Mysql Rest Service

---

## About

**Mysql Rest Service** is a Java & Jersey based REST service to support various CRUD operations for MySQL database. Presently it supports adding, updating and deleting records. More details can be seen in the wiki page. 

The service loads properties from classpath to connect to the target DB. Currently the name of the file is config.properties. 

Once built and deployed on local server, the service can be accessed at:
http://localhost:8080/mrest
where mrest is the context root for the service

[Swagger](http://swagger.io/swagger-ui/) is also supported for this REST service and can be accessed at:
http://localhost:8080/mrest/swagger/index.jsp

Authentication and Authorization has been added in the service. The authentication is done via login REST service and user is authorized using 'User' and 'Role' DB tables.
The supported roles are as below:

  - Unauthenticated - Not used for now
  - User - minimum role required to query tables. Operation supported: Select
  - Approver - Not used for now
  - Editor - Add records. Operation supported: Insert
  - Manager - Update/Delete Records. Operation supported: Update/Delete
  - Administrator - Create tables ( service not available yet )

The roles are cascading in nature, which means that higher roles are authorized to do all operations as lower roles with some extra added features exclusive to the role. **Administrator** is the highest role and **User** is the lowest role.

The user DB should have two tables User and Role structured as below

The User table must have fields:
  - uid (int)
  - firstName (varchar)
  - lastName (varchar)
  - password (varchar)
  - idRole (varchar) refers Role(id).

The Role table should be structured as below:
  - id (int)
  - name (varchar) 

Please note that authentication and authorization is only to support various operations from the REST service. The actual login to DB is still done via the configured DB admin user.

Note: This service will not support DDL operations, hence operations like create table, alter table etc cannot be done.

## Usage

### Query ( Fetch Data )

Query is supported over POST http request. Sample POST request as below:

```
POST http://localhost:8080/mrest/api/mdml/query
dbName=myDb1
query=Select * from MyTable1
```

Sample CURL request would be:

````
curl -X POST --header 'Content-Type: application/json' --header 'Accept: application/json' 'http://localhost:8080/mrest/api/mdml/query?dbName=myDb1&query=Select%20*%20from%20MyTable1%20where%20id%20%3D%2010001'
````

The response for above request will be like below:
````
 {
  "objects": [
    {      
      "id": 10001,
	  "dateOfCreation": 1429720003000,
      "address": "Pune, India",
      "dateUpdated": "2015-04-11",
      "idOtherTable": 20001
    }
   ],
   "status": true,
   "message": "Successful",
   "time": 493
 }
````

The query can be any simple or complex SQL SELECT statement which can contain any 'where', 'join' or 'aggregate' statements. It does not support INSERT/UPDATE or DELETE statements. 
The select operation can be done only on the DB specified as parameter dbName. Cross DB select is not supported.

The response is a JSON object and is explained as below:

  - 'objects' = an array of records, each element of array being a row of the resultset
  - 'status' = the boolean status of the operation i.e. true for success and false for failure
  - 'message' = the message describing the status of operation
  - 'time' = the time taken in the operation in milliseconds

Each element of the objects array is an row returned as a result of the sql statement. The SQL statement must be written in such a way that each output column has a unique name. So in case of joins where multiple tables have same column, the query can use an alias for each output column to uniquely identify a column. This is required because the implementation uses a map to represent a row object and only single entry can be done for same column name repeated in a row.

#### Supported Data types for columns

The response row object supports below data types and format:

  - 'int' returned as number
  - 'varchar' returned as String
  - 'Date' returned as String date as 'yyyy-MM-dd'
  - 'DateTime' returned as long representing milliseconds since epoch
  - 'BLOB' returned as BASE64 encoded String


### insertOrUpdate ( Inserts or Updates Data )

The input objects must be formed like below
````
{
  "transaction": false,
  "entityGroups": {
		"table1": [
				{"column11":"value11"},
				{"column12":"value12"}
			],
		"table2" : [
				{"column21":"value21"},
				{"column22":"value22"}
			],
		"table3": [
				{"column31":"value31"},
				{"id": 5, "column32":"value32"}
			],
		"table4": [
				{"column31":"value31", "idTable1":-2}
			]
  }
}
````

You can provide as many objects and in any order. 

Following things must be defined in DB already:

  - Each table must have an autogenerated id column which is named as 'id' which takes a positive integer only
  - The foreign keys must be set properly in each table to point to referenced table primary key
  - When a new record needs to be inserted, then id must not be supplied in the corresponding object. If id is supplied then it is considered an update query.
  - If an object has a foreign key to another object which has to be inserted as part of this request, then the foreign key should be set to -(index of the referenced object)
		In above example, table4 has a new object to be inserted, but the foreign key("idTable1") has a value -2 => the generated id from second entry from table1 should be used as foreign key for this entry of Table4.
  - The service gurantees that the referenced entries are inserted/updated before the entries which depend on them
  - Column and table names are case sensitive
